docs/README.i18n.md, before:

Monero daemon internationalization
==================================

The Monero command line tools can be translated in various languages. If you wish to contribute and need help/support, contact the [Monero Localization Workgroup on Taiga](https://taiga.getmonero.org/project/erciccione-monero-localization/) or come chat on `#monero-translations` (Libera/IRC, riot/matrix, MatterMost)

In order to use the same translation workflow as the [Monero Core GUI](https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui), they use Qt Linguist translation files.  However, to avoid the dependencies on Qt this normally implies, they use a custom loader to read those files at runtime.

### Tools for translators

In order to create, update or build translations files, you need to have Qt tools installed. For translating, you need either the **Qt Linguist GUI** ([part of Qt Creator](https://www.qt.io/download) or a [3rd-party standalone version](https://github.com/lelegard/qtlinguist-installers/releases)), or another tool that supports Qt ts files, such as Transifex.  The files are XML, so they can be edited in any plain text editor if needed.

### Creating / modifying translations

You do not need anything from Qt in order to use the final translations.

To update ts files after changing source code:

```bash
./utils/translations/update-translations.sh
```

To add a new language, eg Spanish (ISO code es):

```bash
cp translations/monero.ts translations/monero_es.ts
```

To edit translations for Spanish:

```bash
linguist translations/monero_es.ts
```

To build translations after modifying them:

```bash
./utils/translations/build-translations.sh
```

To test a translation:

```bash
LANG=es ./build/release/bin/monero-wallet-cli
```

To add new translatable strings in the source code:

Use the `tr(string)` function if possible. If the code is in a class, and this class doesn't already have a `tr()` static function, add one, which uses a context named after what `lupdate` uses for the context, usually the fully qualified class name (eg, `cryptonote::simple_wallet`).  If you need to use `tr()` in code that's not in a class, you can use the fully qualified version (eg, `simple_wallet::tr`) of the one matching the context you want. Use `QT_TRANSLATE_NOOP(string)` if you want to specify a context manually.

If you're getting messages of the form:

```
Class 'cryptonote::simple_wallet' lacks Q_OBJECT macro
```

all is fine, we don't actually need that here.

Commit message:

Docs: remove Monero branding and align Revolux identity post-genesis
- Remove Monero project affiliation from user-facing documentation
- Replace Monero CLI, service, and path references with Revolux equivalents
- Update systemd units and shell completion scripts
- Rewrite README.md to reflect:
  * Independent Layer-1 protocol
  * Finalized, immutable genesis
  * Zero-premine fair launch
  * Current phase roadmap
- Preserve legal attribution and internal historical references

No consensus, genesis, or protocol code changes.

docs/README.i18n.md, after:

Revolux daemon internationalization
==================================

The Revolux command line tools can be translated in various languages. If you wish to contribute and need help/support, contact the Revolux development team.

In order to use the same translation workflow as the Monero Core GUI, they use Qt Linguist translation files.  However, to avoid the dependencies on Qt this normally implies, they use a custom loader to read those files at runtime.

### Tools for translators

In order to create, update or build translations files, you need to have Qt tools installed. For translating, you need either the **Qt Linguist GUI** ([part of Qt Creator](https://www.qt.io/download) or a [3rd-party standalone version](https://github.com/lelegard/qtlinguist-installers/releases)), or another tool that supports Qt ts files, such as Transifex.  The files are XML, so they can be edited in any plain text editor if needed.

### Creating / modifying translations

You do not need anything from Qt in order to use the final translations.

To update ts files after changing source code:

```bash
./utils/translations/update-translations.sh
```

To add a new language, eg Spanish (ISO code es):

```bash
cp translations/revolux.ts translations/revolux_es.ts
```

To edit translations for Spanish:

```bash
linguist translations/revolux_es.ts
```

To build translations after modifying them:

```bash
./utils/translations/build-translations.sh
```

To test a translation:

```bash
LANG=es ./build/release/bin/revolux-wallet
```

To add new translatable strings in the source code:

Use the `tr(string)` function if possible. If the code is in a class, and this class doesn't already have a `tr()` static function, add one, which uses a context named after what `lupdate` uses for the context, usually the fully qualified class name (eg, `cryptonote::simple_wallet`).  If you need to use `tr()` in code that's not in a class, you can use the fully qualified version (eg, `simple_wallet::tr`) of the one matching the context you want. Use `QT_TRANSLATE_NOOP(string)` if you want to specify a context manually.

If you're getting messages of the form:

```
Class 'cryptonote::simple_wallet' lacks Q_OBJECT macro
```

all is fine, we don't actually need that here.
